   #alternate The Stigma of Being a Housewife

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) Sections
   (BUTTON) SEARCH
   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Europe


   Today’s Paper

   Europe|The Stigma of Being a Housewife
   https://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/21/world/europe/21iht-LETTER.html
     * (BUTTON) Give this articleGive this articleGive this article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   Advertisement
   Continue reading the main story

   Supported by
   Continue reading the main story

   The Female Factor

The Stigma of Being a Housewife

     * Send any friend a story
       As a subscriber, you have 10 gift articles to give each month.
       Anyone can read what you share.
       (BUTTON)
       (BUTTON) Give this articleGive this articleGive this article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   By Katrin Bennhold
     * July 20, 2010

   STOCKHOLM — When the Swedish journalist Peter Letmark tried to track
   down a housewife for a series on 21st-century parents in the newspaper
   Dagens Nyheter recently, he failed.

   “Housewives,” he explained, “are a near-extinct species in Sweden. And
   the few who still do exist don’t really dare to go public with it.”

   In neighboring Norway, the Housewives’ Association changed its name to
   the Women and Family Association as its membership plummeted to 5,000
   from 60,000. “The reference to housewife was just too embarrassing,”
   said the feminist economist Charlotte Koren of the Norwegian Institute
   of Social Research, a former member and mother of two.

   When it is no longer socially acceptable to be a housewife — or
   homemaker, in modern American parlance — has feminism overshot its
   objective?

   In the 1950s, women were expected to stay at home, and those who wanted
   to work were often stigmatized. Today it’s mostly the other way round,
   pitting women against one another along the fault lines of conviction,
   economic class and need, and, often, ethnicity.

   Across the developed world, women who stay home are increasingly seen
   as old-fashioned and an economic burden to society. If their husbands
   are rich, they are frequently berated for being lazy; if they are
   immigrants, for keeping children from learning the language and ways of
   their host country.

   Their daily chores of cleaning, cooking or raising their children have
   always been ignored by national accounts. (If a man marries his
   housekeeper and stops paying her for her work, G.D.P. goes down. If a
   woman stops nursing and buys formula for her baby, G.D.P. goes up.) In
   a debate that counts women catching up with men in education and the
   labor market in terms of raising productivity and economic growth,
   stay-at-home moms are valued less than ever. This is so despite the
   fact that from Norway to the United States, economists put the value of
   their unpaid work ahead of that of the manufacturing sector.

   In countries where mothers still struggle to combine career with family
   and quit work less out of conviction than out of necessity, they are
   often doubly punished. In Germany, the biggest economy in Europe, most
   schools still finish at lunchtime, and full-time nurseries for children
   under 3 are scarce. Yet in this generation of young mothers you are
   more likely to find women saying they are on extended maternity leave
   or between jobs than admitting they are housewives.

   Only among the wealthy is it seen as class status when the highly
   educated mother takes children to Chinese or violin lessons.

   “It’s hard to find a balance between not romanticizing and not
   stigmatizing housewives,” said Nancy Folbre, a professor of economics
   at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “Even though a number of
   women still stay at home, a cultural shift has put them on the
   defensive.”

   Bearing in mind that women now work both because they want to and
   because most families need two incomes, she said, “That’s the way
   social norms work: They put pressure on people to conform.”

   In Sweden the demise of the housewife is striking. Fathers share
   parental leave, kindergartens are heavily subsidized, and the universal
   breadwinner model is quite deeply entrenched — from the workplace to
   popular culture.

   Once the key market for advertisers on daytime television, happy
   homemakers touting cleaning products now rarely feature in TV ads.

   They are a “nonexistent segment,” said Jonas Andersson, brand
   consultant at The Brand Union, a Swedish brand design company. From
   time to time international ads have to be re-dubbed to remove offensive
   mentions of a “housewife,” he said. Mr. Andersson and his colleagues
   focus on what he calls the “women short of time” segment.

   “From chocolate to cars, you want to target working mothers,” he said.

   Nordic politicians have long focused on working mothers, giving them
   subsidies for elderly care and child care and, more recently, financial
   incentives to share parental leave.

   Over all, these policies have increased economic growth, raised tax
   revenue and given women who wanted to work more financial independence,
   more social benefits, more personal fulfillment — in short, what many
   would call more freedom.

   But social engineering is a blunt tool, and some worry that the freedom
   of working mothers has come at the expense of making outcasts of a
   minority who want to do things differently.

   Jorun Lindell, a mother of three and the wife of a Swedish
   entrepreneur, tried being a housewife and could not make it work.
   “Sneered at,” she said, for her conviction that her children should
   have their mother at home, she learned that she also could not put them
   into state day care a few hours every day or week because it was
   reserved for families where both parents are either working, looking
   for work or studying.

   She ended up enrolling at a university without any interest in her
   course, “wasting resources to get something our taxes already pay for,”
   she said.

   There is no easy way to right the unintended consequences of
   well-meaning policy.

   Some measures, like the home care allowance Sweden and Norway pay
   stay-at-home parents who opt out of the day care system, have often
   only reinforced the stigma attached to housewives: concerns that this
   allowance, popular with working-class and immigrant families, hampers
   social mobility by keeping children of poor and foreign backgrounds out
   of socializing day care have made it controversial.

   A cheaper and possibly more effective way might be to finally and
   formally recognize the contribution housewives make to the economy,
   said Hélène Périvier, an economist at the Institut d’Études Politiques
   in Paris.

   “It’s not about being paid,” said Ms. Périvier, noting that the
   economic value housewives create remains within their home, “it’s about
   being valued.”

   If ever there was a time to include unpaid housework and care work in
   G.D.P. figures, it is now, she said. Working mothers have a stake in
   this, too: They still do most of the unpaid work in their homes — even
   in Sweden.

   Advertisement
   Continue reading the main story

Site Information Navigation

     * © 2022 The New York Times Company

     * NYTCo
     * Contact Us
     * Accessibility
     * Work with us
     * Advertise
     * T Brand Studio
     * Your Ad Choices
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Service
     * Terms of Sale
     * Site Map
     * Canada
     * International
     * Help
     * Subscriptions

   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
