     *

     * Advice
     * FAQ
     * Reviews
     * Contact
     * Login
     * Get Started

   (BUTTON) Open navigation menu
     * Advice
     * FAQ
     * Reviews
     * Contact
     * Login
     * Get Started

   ____________________
   Advice Home
   >How To

How To Be A Good Housewife In The Modern Era

   Updated October 10, 2022 by ReGain Editorial Team

   The term housewife has come to have a negative connotation in the 21st
   century. The origin of housewife duty is actually a by-product of the
   Industrial Revolution when people moved out of agrarian societies and
   into modern cities and women faced new roles in society. With this new
   modern lifestyle, the definition of housewife came about: a woman who
   stays home and tends the children and house while her husband works in
   an industry-based job for forty or more hours a week. Whether they go
   by the name of housewife homemaker or stay-at-home mom, the housewife
   definition has certainly changed over the past century or so.

   Whether this is a result of less than accurate reality television, the
   prominence of feminism in current times, or some other idealization
   that being a housewife is no longer relevant, it is a job that has the
   opposite stigma than it did in the past. Women in the 1930s were
   expected to be housewives - the idea of women who work outside the home
   was frowned upon. They were expected to prioritize their home and
   family over everything else, especially a career. However, now that it
   is 2020, not only had the role of a housewife gone away nearly
   completely, but it has started to make a comeback.

   What Does It Mean To Be A Good Housewife Today?
   Ask A Board-Certified Marriage Counselor Online Today.

   While housewives or stay at home mothers are becoming common again, it
   is not the same situation as women who lived back in the early to
   mid-1900s. The differences between the two will shine some light on how
   to be a good housewife in the modern era. It will also allow you to set
   some expectations for yourself and your marriage, so that knowing who
   is supposed to be doing which tasks does not become a marital concern.
   Communicating these kinds of expectations in a marriage is the best way
   to avoid issues in your relationship early on.

Expectations Of A Housewife

   You might be wondering how different the duties of a modern era
   housewife might be from the role of housewife in the past. How much
   could the everyday tasks within the home change - cooking and cleaning,
   keeping the children entertained, and other domestic duties seem to be
   the basics no matter what year it is. If you have a social media
   presence, you might have seen how different those tasks can be when the
   excerpt from a 1950s home economics textbook made its rounds online.
   The domestic duties of a housewife and mother outlined in the textbook
   were enough to make most women roll their eyes. Whether they go by the
   name of housewife homemaker or stay-at-home mom, taking care of the
   house and children was always the number one priority.

   By understanding what it takes to be a modern house wife, you will get
   a grasp on some of what previous women experienced in the role.
   However, some of the traditional housewife tasks have changed with the
   times. Identifying those changes might help to make you a quality
   housewife in the 21st century. It will also help you to decide the kind
   of housewife you desire to be.

   Clean The House

   While the man is holding a full-time job outside of the house, the
   woman is holding a full-time job within the house. This means that a
   housewife is responsible for laundry, dusting, vacuuming, sweeping the
   floors, doing the dishes, not to mention cooking and cleaning up any
   clutter or toys left around the house. While it depends on the specific
   household, many housewives do some of these tasks daily (such as
   laundry) and others weekly (like dusting).

   A recent study shows that, on average, women spend 17 hours a
   week doing housework. This changes housewife housewife. A married woman
   with more than three children typically spends 28 hours a week
   accomplishing the same tasks. More kids mean more laundry, dishes, and
   messes in general, so a mother to several children will stay far busier
   as a stay at home mother and housewife. So, depending on housewares
   housewarming housewife, the work load and the time spent to take care
   of the house changes from home to home. With the baby boomer generation
   being born in the late 1940s to early 1960s, many households had more
   than three children. However, in the past, women spend more time on
   housework.

   It would be logical to think that modern technology has helped to cut
   down on those many hours of housework needed to tend house. The
   housewives of the past – traditional housewives – did not have robot
   vacuums, dishwashers, or high capacity washing machines. While the
   innovations used in the modern era have saved time and energy for
   homemakers, some things have not been made far simpler.

   Serving Meals

   Like past housewives, modern-day housewives are usually responsible for
   meals. Having homemade meals together is something that can really make
   a house a home. While there are some services available today that were
   not available years ago to a family and society, like meal subscription
   boxes, it is still up to the housewife to cook the food. How does this
   differ from housewives in the past? Meal planning in the 21st century
   has become a whole other entity. There were far fewer options in the
   past, and the cost of healthy food was far less, even considering the
   increase in wages and the cost of living overall.

   Because of the cost of healthy options, many housewives are forced to
   pick and choose between cost and quality. This might mean making one or
   two low costs, unhealthy meals for the week and a handful of pricier
   but healthier meals. With the planning involved in the modern era, most
   housewives spend far more time preparing for meals than they did in
   previous years.

   A good homemaker in the modern era will have the meals planned out
   before going grocery shopping. This way, she can control the grocery
   budget and be fully prepared to cook the meals throughout the week. By
   doing this, a housewife will also have the ability to estimate the time
   needed to prepare dinner, thus allowing her to create the most
   productive schedule. A schedule is a key aspect of maintaining the home
   and other domestic duties of being a housewife. After all, every good
   wife knows that preparing good food for her husband and family is a
   great way to show love!

   Taking Care Of The Kids

   No matter the era, a housewife is responsible for taking care of the
   children. While Dad is at work, a stay at home mother must care for her
   kids. Often, when men talk about what they want in a good wife, looking
   after the kids well is part of their criteria. This usually means
   ensuring that they are fed, bathed, teeth and hair have been brushed,
   they are dressed, and they have structured activities throughout the
   day. Although some housewives of the 21st century fall into the trap
   of plopping their children in front of the television, a good homemaker
   will organize a variety of activities and play dates with other
   children.

   When the children are school-aged, a housewife is typically responsible
   for making lunches and ensuring that they are prepared for school,
   extracurriculars, and taking them to and picking them up from school or
   their activities. A dictionary housewife also often requires that mom
   play the role of guidance counselor or therapist.

   Although housewives were responsible for keeping children away from Dad
   in the past so that he could relax after work, parenting in the modern
   era is much more of a team effort. Today's housewife communicates with
   her husband and does not do the parenting alone. Although her husband
   might be tired from a long day at work, a good full-time housewife will
   also be tired from a long day of caring for the house and kids.

   What Does It Mean To Be A Good Housewife Today?
   Ask A Board-Certified Marriage Counselor Online Today.

   Spend One On One Time With Your Husband

   A big difference between previous housewives and today's housewives is
   the interaction that occurs between husband and wife. The 1950s home
   economics textbook that was previously mentioned instructs future
   housewives to allow their husbands to relax in the bedroom and let him
   have quiet time when he returns home from work. It also says that the
   wife should not pile her problems on him, as he should be able to
   unload his problems on you. While this was way back in 1950, being a
   housewife has changed dramatically in this area.

   Married couples in the modern era tend to do better with more
   communication between the two. Although a man should be able to talk to
   his wife about his problems and concerns, a wife should be able to do
   the same with her husband. By ensuring that communication between man
   and wife is open and honest, being a full-time housewife is a role that
   is more appreciated by both parties.

   When the focus is placed solely on one person in the relationship, the
   relationship can easily become one-sided. However, by being a housewife
   in the modern era, men are more enlightened in how much work their stay
   at home wives do.

   Being A Good Housewife In Today's World

   Times have changed. For a while, that meant being a housewife was
   uncommon. Those that were housewives were looked down upon.
   Fortunately, it is becoming a far better situation for mothers to stay
   at home with their children or wives to stay at home to keep up with
   the house. With the cost of daycare these days, it is the best option
   for many families. If you find yourself being a housewife in the modern
   era, following the above-mentioned suggestions will make you a good
   one!

   Remember, being a good housewife in this century means keeping the
   house clean, the kids fed and entertained, making well-rounded meals,
   and maintaining a relationship with your spouse. By placing proper
   emphasis on each of these categories, a fulltime housewife is sure to
   succeed in her journey in the home. If you feel as though reverting to
   the 1950 standards of a housewife would better work for you and your
   relationship, that is okay, too. Find a structure that works for you
   and stick with it!

   (BUTTON) Read More

   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

   Is Being A Housewife Easy?

   This will depend heavily on your situation. For example, being in a
   complicated financial situation might make being a housewife very
   stressful, or having a special needs child, or choosing to homeschool.
   There are many circumstances that could make your role as a stay at
   home mom/ wife more complex.

   Being an American housewife is full of tasks that can make the role a
   bit overwhelming. If you have children, the number of extracurricular
   activities American school possesses may pose some stress for a young
   housewife. Taking kids to school, home from school, to however many
   activities they have after school, and home from those activities can
   make time at home to do work more sparse or broken. That being said,
   when first adapting to the stay at home role, there will surely be a
   transition time before you get comfortable with the routine you have
   and the schedules your children have.

   Is Being A Housewife Good?

   There is absolutely no problem with being a housewife if that is what
   you want to do and it is financially feasible for you.

   The only problems would arise if you make major life decisions, such as
   staying home with your kids or leaving a job, based on external
   pressure rather than “following your heart” so to speak. Maybe you feel
   external pressure from a partner, a job, your friends, and societal
   expectations, but do not let them influence your decision to stay home
   or pursue a career. That is an intimately personal decision to make,
   and you should not need to apologize for it or explain it.

   But remember that feminism, and women’s rights, are centered around
   choice. That means that in an equal society, women have the right to
   choose the life they want, rather than having those decisions dictated
   for them by lawmakers, bosses, or other authority figures.

   Being a stay at home mom/wife is fulfilling an important role in the
   fabric of society. Contributing to a job or career with a skill that
   you excel in is an important role in the fabric of society. Just
   remember, that choice is yours, not anyone else’s.

   What Makes A Good Housewife?

   According to the English dictionary, a housewife is “a married woman in
   charge of a household.” This definition is open to a lot of
   interpretation regarding what is considered household matters.
   Nevertheless, this more modern English translation below will list a
   few different stay at home tasks that a good housewife might adhere
   to:
     * Cooking meals
     * Cleaning
     * Taking care of the pets/children (if any are had)
     * Transporting children to school and/or extra-curricular activities
     * Supporting her family/household members
     * Doing laundry
     * Educating your children and helping with homework or homeschool

   A more traditional image of a housewife may also include using a sewing
   kit to stitch up any worn and torn materials in the house. This image
   usually included a woman carrying around a small sewing kit in her
   dress pockets for those emergency sewing projects that just couldn’t
   wait. Additional tasks may be incorporated depending on your unique
   family and household.

   Beyond that, remember that taking care of yourself means a happier
   household for the whole family. For you, maybe being a good mother and
   wife means maintaining an exercise routine, investing in interior
   design, signing up for a boxing class, maintaining an active and
   fulfilling social life, or more. Before worrying about perfectly
   fulfilling the role of a good housewife, prioritize instead being the
   best version of yourself that you can be.

   What Is The Politically Correct Term For A Housewife?

   Stay at home mothers tends to be the preferred term for housewife. For
   similar reasons that are stated in “Is being a housewife good?” the
   term housewife itself tends to have a negative connotation for some
   people. Nevertheless, the term is not considered derogatory and can be
   used. Just be aware that some people may take offense to the diction.

   Who Is Happier, A Housewife Or Working Wife?

   According to a survey, the role of housewife is favored more than a
   career woman who must work outside the home. While many people may
   prefer to be stay at home mothers/wives, the reality is that being a
   housewife does not provide an income. That being said, a woman faced
   with financial pressures may need to give up the much-preferred role of
   being a stay at home mother/wife in order to provide for her family.

   Which Is Better, A Housewife Or Career Woman?

   Neither a housewife nor a career woman is particularly “better” than
   the other. The position depends entirely on how you would like your
   life to live your life and support your family. If you are happy
   staying at home and running your family/household, caring for your
   family, and raising your children, then being a housewife would be
   better for you. If you are an ambitious woman who wants to keep busy,
   make an income, and insert oneself into a career, then being a career
   woman may suit you best. It all depends on your individual
   circumstances and preferences.

   The only important thing is that you do not make decisions based on
   outside pressure. That might be outside pressure from a partner, a job,
   or even your girlfriends. If you want to be a housewife, be a
   housewife! If you want to be a career woman, go for it! Just never let
   anyone make you feel inferior for your decisions.

   Please read “Who is happier, a housewife or working wife?” for
   additional details to consider.

   What Can I Do As A Stay At Home Wife?

   Being a stay at home housewife (as stated in the English
   dictionary/English language definition of “housewife” in “What makes a
   good housewife?”) involves many tasks/chores to complete while home.
   These tasks may include the basics like cooking for the family,
   cleaning the house, gardening, maintaining the lawn, taking care of the
   children, supporting her husband, taking care of any pets,
   transportation of kiddos, etc.

   There are surely other tasks a stay at home mother/wife could do such
   as getting involved in their children’s school activities as a
   chaperone/supervisor, taking care of older parents who may live in or
   near the household, and/or joining community organizations. Please read
   “What makes a good housewife?” for more information.

   What Housewife Can Do At Home?

   A housewife can basically do whatever she needs to do to run a clean,
   smooth, functioning, and prosperous family and household. This may
   include (but are not limited to) a number of activities described in
   “What makes a good housewife?” and “What can I do as a stay at home
   wife?” Depending on the size and type of family you have, these tasks
   may vary slightly.

   If you chose to do so, you could be a part-time housewife who works
   part of the day and is home to run the house during the rest of the
   day. There is also the possibility of being home while working a job
   with flexible hours. This would allow some flow of income as well as
   the household to be maintained all from the comforts of the same
   location.

   Why Is Housewife Undervalued?

   Labor that is typically completed by women, especially in the home,
   tends to be undervalued and sometimes even unpaid.

   Housewives can be undervalued by spouses and society because of the
   past stereotypes into which women were forced. These stereotypes
   assumed that women could not and should not be involved in social,
   political, economic, etc. types of business because of their lack of
   knowledge and engagement in society. Now, housewives may still be
   undervalued because of their lack of income or adherence to historical
   stereotypes. A housewife could also be undervalued by her spouse
   because of the seemingly “trivial” work she must complete during the
   day in comparison to her husband’s work in society.

   Think about it this way: If you were not arranging the house, how much
   would your household have to spend on a cleaning service? If you were
   not raising your children, how much would you have to spend on
   childcare, tutors, chauffeurs, etc.? If you were not cooking, how much
   would a chef cost?

   The value of the things you do every day for your family would cost
   tens of thousands of dollars if you were not taking care of them.

   If anyone tries to belittle you for your role in your household, remind
   them that instead of one job, you juggle about ten different roles, and
   you do it all for free.

   How Do Housewives Keep Busy?

   Housewives keep busy through plenty of household tasks and schedules
   which must be maintained. These tasks involve the basic functions of a
   house: cooking, cleaning, doing laundry, taking care of and
   transporting children, outdoor work, taking care of fellow family
   members and pets if need be, etc. Further details can be found in “What
   makes a good housewife?” Additionally, a housewife must maintain
   multiple schedules other than her own.

   Generally, she must maintain her children’s schedules be them
   school-related, sports-related, and/or socially-related. A housewife
   must also maintain her husband’s schedule, ensuring that dinner is
   cooked upon his return home from work and even joining or bringing him
   lunch during his lunch hour. Though a housewife’s description does not
   technically involve these errands, a housewife and family woman may
   also need to take parents/relatives to doctor appointments or run with
   them for their own household errands if they need assistance.

   Is It OK To Be A Homemaker?

   It is definitely okay to be a homemaker if that position is financially
   and emotionally suitable for you. Ultimately, homemakers are always
   present in a family. The difference is found in the full-time and
   part-time roles these homemakers have. While some families may have
   full-time homemakers working constantly to maintain order in their
   house and family, others have multiple part-time homemakers (a mother
   and a father) working to keep order depending on their work schedules.
   That being said, whether you are full-time or part-time is completely
   acceptable as long as you are happy with your role choice.

   How Can I Be The Perfect Housewife?

   There is no standard for being the perfect housewife. At the end of the
   day, you will need to practice plenty in order to ensure everything
   that your household needs and complete that to the degree you believe
   is best. The modern English translation of being a housewife does not
   mean that you cannot be an active community member or figure in
   society. If you are able to run your house well and efficiently, then
   feel free to do more than just household tasks. For more information
   regarding at-home tasks, please read “What makes a good housewife?”
   (BUTTON) Read Less
     * Previous Article
       I Don't Want It To Be Over: How To Get My Wife Back When She Wants
       A Divorce
     * Next Article
       How To Get Over Being Cheated On And Start A New Relationship

For Additional Help & Support With Your Concerns

   Speak With A Licensed Therapist
   This website is owned and operated by BetterHelp, who receives all fees
   associated with the platform.
   The information on this page is not intended to be a substitution for
   diagnosis, treatment, or informed professional advice. You should not
   take any action or avoid taking any action without consulting with a
   qualified mental health professional. For more information, please read
   our terms of use.
   ____________________
   Get The Support You Need From One Of Our Therapists
   (BUTTON) Get Started
   This website is owned and operated by BetterHelp, who receives all fees
   associated with the platform.
   Top Categories
     * How To
     * General
     * Marriage
     * Dating
     * Therapist

   See all categories
   Related articles
     * How To Find A Useful Premarital Counseling Book
     * How To Tell If Your Relationship Is Over On Your Own
     * How To Fix Your Relationship Fast
     * How To Fix An Unhealthy Relationship With Counseling
     * How To Fix A Broken Marriage Without Counseling At The Office

   The information on this page is not intended to be a substitution for
   diagnosis, treatment, or informed professional advice. You should not
   take any action or avoid taking any action without consulting with a
   qualified mental health professional. For more information, please read
   our terms of use.
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Privacy Policy
     * (BUTTON) Cookie Settings
     * Web Accessibility
     * © 2022 ReGain

   If you are in a crisis or any other person may be in danger - don't use
   this site. These resources can provide you with immediate help.
