   #alternate

   The Darling Academy

   Navigation
     * Home
     * Articles
     * Books
     * About
     * Press
     * Contact
     *
     *

   Search ____________________ Search

   Back to article index

           The New Stepford: I'm proud to be a traditional housewife

   Alena Kate Pettitt November 7, 2019

   Traditional-Housewife-Alena_Kate-Pettitt.jpg

   Join the Apron Clad Army

   Being a stay-at-home mum is nothing new. Similarly, being a housewife
   is nothing new - but a ‘traditional’ housewife and brazenly calling
   yourself so? The reason it’s news in 2020 is because we’ve been forced
   underground for so long, downtrodden and quietened by social shaming,
   but I want to help build a ladder on which we climb back out, and
   reclaim our celebrated place in the community…

   ---

Oh, I’m “just” a housewife. It’s meaningless really.

   Born in west London, 1985, my early childhood was conventional.
   Traditional if you will, with my mother staying at home, while my dad
   worked double shifts as a postman in order to keep food on the table.
   Weekends were spent at either grandparents’ house enjoying home cooked
   meals. An especially fond memory is of watching my paternal
   grandmother, Joyce, ice elaborate ‘frou-frou’ wedding cakes, three
   circular tiers, white-on-white, as was the fashion back in the late
   ‘80s.

   Joyce was an ex-nurse, married to Eddie, with three gigantic sons (and
   I mean, gigantic - my dad is 6"7), whom she fed three square meals, and
   dusted around during the day. Eddie relaxing in his easy chair in his
   stay-press trousers, slippers, and pullover watching darts, and rolling
   cigarettes while Joyce ‘kept house’. To my little eyes, they seemed
   very content and in love - enjoying themselves at the weekends down the
   social club dancing the meanest quick-step you’d ever see. What I
   realise now is that despite Joyce appearing to be ‘just’ a housewife,
   she also had a side-hustle. A skill that added to the family coffers
   (or might have afforded her pocket-money for a perm or two), but she
   was always, first and foremost, a traditional housewife.

   My maternal grandmother Jytte (pron: You-tah) had a job. She worked as
   an administrator at a respite/day-care centre for children with
   disabilities, and as a child, this is where I spent long summers.
   Larking about on slides and swings, or playing with face paint and
   modelling clay when it rained. She worked, but she was there. Present
   in my life as I followed her from home to work, and back again. At her
   home, the balance of housework and domestic duties fell slightly more
   equally than at Joyce’s, but that worked - because she did.

   Our own home, once my parents separated, was sadly not filled with many
   fond memories - because we only really slept there. That feeling of
   “home” wasn’t at that address - it was where the matriarchs were. You
   see, my mum had to go back out to work - and this shaped my future more
   than she, or I, could ever know. I pined for my dad and made the
   decision deep in my heart at that very point in my life that I would
   have a stable, traditional, family unit, and I would fight for it.
   However, modern narrative had plans to suppress me.

   ---

Born in the wrong era.

   Up until the age of 10 I revelled in playing with my Barbie dream
   house. Every drawing was of pretty houses with picket fences and apple
   trees, or ‘portraits’ of my future wedding day and family. Old shoe
   boxes were transformed into ‘rooms’ that I happily decorated with
   tissue paper and scraps of fabric. At night my mum would let me fall
   asleep listening to Doris Day, and the world surrounding me was really
   rather pink. My biggest dream was to get married. Unambitious you may
   think, but my friends, having the kind of marriage I wanted takes work,
   as does being a good wife! Note the fact I wasn’t focused necessarily
   on “the wedding”, it was the promise and lifelong ‘occupation’ that
   came with it!

   traditional-housewife-the-darling-academy.jpg

   But crashing towards 1996 when The Spice Girls stormed on the scene,
   suddenly ‘growing up’ and embracing GIRL POWER meant having to leave
   all my girlish dreams behind. Apparently 11 years old is when girls
   need to leave everything they love behind to don a crop-top and a pout.
   Not because they wanted to, but because it’s no longer ‘cool’, or
   accepted. These girls are also expected to become aggressive and ‘take
   on the boys’. Not doing so is weak and gives boys some mythical ‘power’
   that we don’t want them to have. Yet boys are still left to enjoy their
   cars, football, and letting mummy look after them.

   I’m not sure life has changed all that much for boys or girls since
   then. Our young girls are growing up so fast, and innocence being lost
   earlier than ever. Miniature ‘bras’ are on sale, midriffs are bare, and
   sexy songs are sung in the playground. It seems as if girls are laying
   aside their dolls even earlier than my generation did, and replacing
   them with unwholesome things - things that steal innocence and dreams
   rather than nurture and encourage them. Modern influencers and
   influences aren’t much better, teaching them passive aggressive
   remarks, and using personality traits typical of your gender isn’t cool
   - just watch modern shows for kids on Netflix to see for yourself.

   I needn’t rehash the statistics that girls now want to grow up to be
   pop stars, influencers, or Kardashians… What happened to nurses,
   doctors, teachers, and yes, even entrepreneurs, CEO’s, or housewives?

   In truth, being a female CEO and a Housewife are one and the same - one
   may have less subordinates, and wear an apron instead of a power suit,
   but their team tends to throw more tantrums, demand snacks 24/7, and
   wet themselves at the most inconvenient times. I may or may not be
   talking about husbands.

   Meanwhile, life for boys (and men) still features cars, football,
   tools, outdoor adventures, and perhaps a video game or two. Becoming a
   man happens later, well into their twenties in some cases, and they’ve
   not had to sacrifice what made them happy in childhood.

   With that in mind, how many men do you know that had to set aside their
   childhood hobbies for fear of being picked on? Or one who doesn’t like
   being spoiled by their mum on occasion no matter how old they are? This
   balance is unfair, I believe girls deep down still want to be cherished
   by a masculine figure. Why do romance novels sell so well?

   Instead, the attention we receive and expect becomes sexualised. We
   have to fight against men in the workplace, and on the flip side, fight
   for their attention at the local wine bar… Meanwhile the boys are still
   unashamedly “who they are”.

   It was painful, but I slowly realised there was no room in the social
   narrative for girls who wanted to stay home and have babies anymore.
   There was no room for delicate femininity, or ‘traditionally feminine’
   pursuits. It just wasn’t cool. As if I didn’t already feel like an
   alien in my growing body and single-family dynamic, growing through my
   teen years and early twenties really made me feel like an outsider.
   Mizz, Just 17, and later Cosmopolitan magazines told me to be
   aggressive, a career woman, and learn how to be a sex goddess. School
   turned up the ‘career’ pressure, and every well-meaning question from
   then on enquired about what I wanted to BE. I felt like I was drowning
   in a culture that I didn’t belong to. I loved sewing and cooking, but
   couldn’t care less about learning how to solder something - I had no
   future plans for that!

   I’m thankful that school gave me a taste for everything, and I had the
   ‘right’ and access to help me figure out what I enjoyed doing and might
   want a ‘career in’. Truth be told, with domestic sciences well and
   truly off the menu they actually failed me in some way. I can’t help
   but feel there are other girls (and grown women out there) who may just
   feel the same way.

     There might not be many of us, but our feelings and ‘ambitions’ to
     be wives and mothers are valid too.

   In truth, I never wanted to be anything other than a doting wife, a
   mum, and the best darn housewife in the street! Yet I pretended the
   opposite a while*, as the world told me to get a career—Encouraged me
   to break glass ceilings, and watch I didn’t catch an STI from that
   “catch” at the office Christmas party, and learn how to get over it
   when he never called me back. #livingmybestlife

   Charming.

   *PS: sorry to all the employers I lied to before when I said I wanted
   to work for you.

   ---

“Be anything you want to be - except for that.”

   Don’t get me wrong, I am forever grateful for feminism and the
   courageous women who went before me, to win the vote for me, to win
   choices for me. However in the wake of all that, it doesn’t give them
   the permission to tell me I can be anything I want to be, but it’s
   simply ‘not enough’ to want to stay at home and raise my children, take
   care of my husband, and my home.

   Women of my kind, “ladies like us”, have been told time and time again
   that we should earn our own money. That we are doing a disservice to
   other women, and that we should be thoroughly ashamed to support the
   patriarchy.

   Last time I checked, I was in support of loving marriages where each
   partner flourished according to what made them happy, but o-kay. Just
   because I’m at home and I ‘serve’ my husband doesn’t mean I do so
   unwillingly, that he controls me, or that in doing so it threatens
   someone else’s very existence.

   Women supporting women? Apparently not…

   I still fail to hear comments from men who are ‘up in arms’ over my
   choices. What is it that makes women so angry about the fact ladies
   just like me want to stay home? I’m not forcing anyone to do it, or
   even suggesting they do. Yet I’m here for them if they want to! I’m
   also here to share how wonderful it feels, when you wholeheartedly
   embrace it.

   Some just fear the unknown I guess.

   We are all smart women. Smart enough to make lifestyle choices for our
   families that keep us all happy.

So what does being ‘traditional’ really mean?

   In our family dynamic it means that my husband is the “head of the
   household” (digest *that* phrase 2020). He takes care of the larger
   details (such as earning money, making house payments, dealing with
   major finances, car maintenance, insurances, legalities, and so on). In
   return, I take care of the finer details of running the home, such as
   cooking, cleaning, childcare, and making sure there is a sense of
   harmony in our “haven”. In layman’s terms…

   Him = protect and provide.
   Me = nurture, nourish, and feather the nest.

   Some like to do that in a 50:50 split. But he hates laundry and I hate
   the rat race. This dynamic works for us. Marital bliss, no more arguing
   about who’s going to cook dinner, or in fact - pay for dinner.

   a-traditional-marriage.jpg

   Oh and I have the luxury that when the dishwasher is loaded, the slow
   cooker is on, and the washing machine whirs away I can sit down and
   indulge my passion of writing!

   I’m happy to serve my husband if that’s the trade! It swings in my
   favour nine times out of ten. I’m doing something I LOVE to do, and in
   a roundabout way, I’m getting paid to do it! Smart…

   It’s not as if I am some brain-dead Stepford Wife who is thoroughly
   dependent on her husband to make every decision for her. Running a
   home, and running a home well takes brains, and determination, not to
   mention commitment! Some days I just don’t want to clean the toilets,
   but if I don’t, I suffer too.

   The art of being a housewife is actually hard work and requires much
   skill. We balance budgets, we multi-task, we crisis manage, we support
   people emotionally, we have time to volunteer and reach out to our
   communities. We make sacrifices that count.

   Only £6.99 (about
   $9.60)
   Instant Worldwide download
   Click here for more information
   The Darling Academy

Kitchen Management Manual

Printable PDF housekeeping handbook

     * Meal Planner
     * Shopping List
     * Recipe Card
     * Pantry & Freezer Guides
     * Seasonal Food Guides
     * Conversion Charts
     * FREE BONUS Laundry Tips!

   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Pay securely
   International payment methods accepted:
   Visa Mastercard [svg%3E] Amex Google Pay Apple Pay

   I’d rather sacrifice my time for my family than some boss who doesn’t
   pay me nearly enough, sees me as a number, and who only cares about
   profit margins. I’d rather take care of my own profit and loss
   accounts, thanks. If my husband wants to ‘pay me’ to stay at home doing
   the things I need to do to make sure my child and I survive, and all I
   have to do is lay out one extra plate and make sure his underpants are
   clean - that’s a trade I’m more than happy with!

   To thank him for doing everything he does, I’ll more than happily tell
   him to put his feet up while I fix him a drink. I was thirsty anyway.
   Oh and I might pop a bit of lipstick on and brush my hair, because you
   know what? I want my husband to fancy me, and not look elsewhere!
   Tracksuits and greasy hair looks good on no-one, ever. Not even your
   spouse.

   But it’s more than that shallow view of it really, we have a deep
   appreciation of the other spouse’s skills and talents. We are thankful
   for what we do for each other and the balanced and harmonious dynamic
   it creates for our family. Taking care of one-another has really
   deepened our marriage, our commitment, and made us closer than ever
   before. The best part of it all is that we are living our truth. Our
   love story. He’s better at making money and slaying dragons, and I’m a
   better cook, making small talk in the playground, and I actually enjoy
   the ironing - it’s a win-win.

   Plus, I adore that man! Why wouldn’t I want to spoil him? It’s time
   that women faced the fact that it doesn’t require being successful, or
   sexy to win and keep a (happy) man who wants to cherish and provide for
   you and your babies without complaint - it requires care-taking of him!

   If you want to be cherished as a wife and a woman, you have to respect,
   be tender, tend to, and take care of your husband! You can’t expect him
   to make you happy, but give nothing in return.

   ---

Submission doesn’t mean control.

   I’ve been ‘at home’ for eight years. Before that, I spent a year at
   home as a ‘stay at home girlfriend’ too. It was a decision the Mr and I
   came to together, he supported me while I figured out what I wanted to
   do after a particularly awful time at work… What a gift that was, and
   little did I know the answer was staring us both in the face.

   What I realise now as I write this, is that my husband and I no longer
   argue over who is the most tired, or most stressed at work. We’re not
   nagging each other to go to the supermarket, or fighting over whose
   turn it is to cook, or do the washing up.

   Our laundry is always done, the fridge is always full, dinner is always
   on the table - and each of us know where we stand. He ‘submits’ the
   decisions concerning the finer details to me, and trusts that I will
   complete them to the best of my ability.

   Equally, I submit to him the larger details which concern the decisions
   which impact our family on a larger scale. We always discuss things
   together of course, and my voice is heard - I’m not a dimwit. Sometimes
   the decision we reach is one ‘decided’ by me, but I submit to the fact
   that my husband is always in the immediate firing line for anything
   that happens to our family. The buck stops with him at the end of the
   day, and I’m happy for the “rescue” from some of life’s tougher things
   (if you want to put it into Disney speak). I respect him and take care
   of him and our home, and he cherishes, provides for, and protects me.
   I’m capable of rescue myself of course, I’m a tough cookie. I’d just
   rather not break a nail.

   If being a ‘traditional housewife” means cooking, cleaning, doing the
   school run, and being there (and being attentive) towards him when he
   gets home, then doing ‘just’ that or being defined as ‘submissive’ is
   fine by me.

   Those things are MY job, I chose to do this with my time - and his job
   is to pay for everything (Joking. Kind of). Honestly, I wouldn’t want
   to work his long hours, deal with his business associates, pay the
   bills, or take the stinky rubbish out on a Monday for all the money or
   ‘empowerment’ in the world. I am empowered, by being true to myself.

     It’s incredibly liberating no longer having to do the things I
     really didn’t enjoy, and trusting my husband to sort them on our
     behalf. Equally he hates laundry, but I love it! Just because the
     division of housework falls on my lap, doesn’t mean he doesn’t work
     hard for us too! I love being at home and taking care of my family.
     There is nothing wrong with that in our eyes. Alena Kate Pettitt

   ---

Whose money is it anyway?

   Arguments about money are one of the leading causes of divorce and it
   would be remiss of me not to mention it. Most women are scared to give
   up work because it makes them feel powerless. Having your “own money”
   in your union does not equal power or security, a trusting marriage
   with healthy communication does*. You can afford all the things you
   want if you make your “own”, but for many households that comes at the
   cost of time, harmony and contentment. The money that comes into our
   household is ours, to steward sensibly in a way that benefits and
   supports us all.

   (*I realise not everyone is lucky enough to stay home because of
   financial pressure. The point I’m making is directed to those who think
   the wife not contributing financially is a reason as to why this
   ‘traditional model’ is flawed).

   Like Grandma Joyce making her cakes, I ‘make my own money’ too through
   book sales, and I even ‘earn more than that’ by helping the Mr make
   business decisions when he needs to bounce ideas off someone. I had a
   career in marketing before this change of lifestyle, and those skills
   didn’t just evaporate as soon as I put a pair of rubber gloves on my
   hands. If the book sales dried up, or I chose not to pursue making a
   little extra, that’s ok too! We have budgeted carefully enough to live
   on one income, and I’m of no less value to our family unit.

   Sometimes the fear surrounding the loss of income for the wife is less
   about the money, and more about the lack of trust or sense of
   unfairness between both parties. Couples who are drawn to this
   lifestyle may have to decide if they are willing to make financial
   sacrifices in order to feel richer in other areas - such as their home
   life.

   In a traditional household the pay-check belongs to both of you, no
   matter who ‘earned it’.

   ---

We have our fair share of critics too.

   Despite us being quite different to our peers behind closed doors, Mr
   Darling likes this cosy little set-up we have going, and shockingly, if
   you hadn’t already guessed… so do I! Even my own mother found it quite
   odd when I’d say to her “I’ll ask my husband”, but she’s used to it
   now, because she sees how well we take care of each other, and she
   knows that the ‘asking’ is really just consideration and making sure
   that what I do won’t impact us negatively.

   Because yes, without checking first, an immediate RSVP to a hen party
   the same weekend my husband has a big deadline, and my son has three
   birthday parties to attend, my not being there will impact us.
   Similarly, spending £100 on a pair of shoes I didn’t really need which
   was set aside for insurance renewals impacts us too.

   Seeking my husband’s “permission” really just means weighing up what
   decisions will benefit us as a whole - not me as an individual. We all
   know that being a parent requires sacrifice, being a spouse does too!
   “Submitting” to him means trusting the decisions he makes are for the
   best, and he has our best interests at heart. He’s not a tyrant, he
   actually loves us and wants to see us flourish as a family. These
   simple truths and ideals haven’t changed since 1950, or ever.

   I’m not saying this lifestyle is right for everyone, and that’s ok! I
   just wanted to explain it better from our point of view.

   As my husband says…

     You don’t have to like my ice cream, it’s MY ice cream. Mr Darling

The naysayers will call me lazy.

   Yet I work from dawn until dusk, and my work is never done. I’m my own
   boss, and I do my ‘job’ pretty darn well, thank you.

They say I’m a slave to my husband.

   If a “slave” gets foot rubs, cuddles, fancy dinners and Chanel handbags
   out of the blue… plus the luxury to stay home and avoid the rat-race so
   long as she does a bit of housekeeping (which she was going to do
   anyway), then you call me whatever you want!

Tell me to earn my “own” money.

   I do, thanks. However we have a family kitty, and I’m sensible with my
   portion and household budget, just as he is. If I didn’t ‘earn’ money
   in the traditional sense (as I hadn’t for the first four years), it
   wouldn’t make a much difference, because we are grown married adults -
   we know how to share, and budget!

They’ll say I’ll find myself in a pickle if “he leaves”.

   Sorry, we took our wedding vows seriously, and life insurance covers
   other eventualities - for both of us.

They say I’m living in a fantasy.

   Yes, it is a dream. One that has come true! I hope yours does too,
   whatever it may be.

   ---

   traditional-wife-uk.jpg

   Thank you for leaving us to our own happiness, and being pleased for
   those who find happiness in this model of marriage too - no matter how
   archaic you might think it is.

   Inside our cosy little homes we are content. We are fine as we are, and
   know this is 2020, not 1959. We now have the luxury of equality within
   marriage, and to cherry-pick the best parts of a traditional lifestyle
   as it suits! If other women want to be a traditional stay-at-home wife,
   tend house, take care of fine husbands and babies, we should all be in
   full support of that.

   IMG_5396.JPG I’ll stand here in my superhero cape shaped like an apron
   and defend the fact it should be a celebrated choice to be a
   traditional housewife and homemaker for as long as I live. Defending it
   for the little ones, and the grown ones alike.

     Let no woman be shamed for wanting to be “just” a traditional
     housewife. Alena Kate Pettitt

   If you want to debate it, just let me know when you’re coming and I’ll
   bake a cake!

   With love,
   A modern Stepford Wife

Learning to be better housewives, together.

   The Darling Academy is here to stay, and here in support for women (and
   their husbands) who want to make the lifestyle choice we have. I wish
   to support you in your journey and show you that it’s ok to want to be
   a good wife.

   It’s ok to want to make your husband happy, and it’s definitely ok to
   stand up and preserve the sanctity of marriage.

   1809, 1909, 1959, 2020 - it’s all the same. Women haven’t changed -
   society’s narrative has, but they too often spin lies to make us feel
   bad about living ‘differently’ from the norm.

   Stand firm ladies, we’re an apron-clad army, and a force to be reckoned
   with! Considering we are supporting fine men that contribute to the
   economy, and are raising future politicians and decision makers that
   will influence the standard of living and social landscape for our
   retirement years, I’d say that the work we do really counts…
   ---

   This article is filed in: Love & Marriage, General, Traditional Values
   Share article

   All content and images in this article are copyright of The Darling
   Academy and are not to be shared or reproduced without our express
   permission.

   Alena Kate Pettitt

   Hello Darling!

   I’m a British lifestyle blogger and book author who writes about good
   manners, nostalgia-inspired homemaking, marriage, and lifestyle. I fill
   these pages with my love for daily elegance, making a house a home,
   sharing vintage recipes, and living a pro-feminine life in a world that
   tells us it’s ‘not enough’ to stay home and keep house.

   So glad you're here.

   Alena x
   Books by The Darling Academy
   The Darling Academy Books Support & Donate
   ---
   Only £6.99 (about
   $9.60)
   Instant Worldwide download

   Printable PDF housekeeping handbook now available to download

Kitchen Management Manual

     * Meal Planner
     * Shopping List
     * Recipe Card
     * Pantry & Freezer Guides
     * Seasonal Food Guides
     * Conversion Charts
     * FREE BONUS Laundry Tips!

   Information & Download

Recent articles

   How I made new female friends as an adult How I made new female friends
   as an adult Mrs Darling's Cosy Autumn & Winter Beef Pie Mrs Darling's
   Cosy Autumn & Winter Beef Pie Homemaker Happenings ... No. 002
   Homemaker Happenings ... No. 002 How to make an Autumnal Hedgerow Gin
   How to make an Autumnal Hedgerow Gin I don't want to return to work
   after having a baby I don't want to return to work after having a baby
   Miserden Estate & Gardens Cotswolds Afternoon Tea: a review Miserden
   Estate & Gardens Cotswolds Afternoon Tea: a review
   View all articles

   Featured on: The Modern Lady

Featured on: The Modern Lady

   Previous article
   A not so desperate housewife

A not so desperate housewife

   Next article
   Article Index

   Instagram @thedarlingacademy

   The Darling Academy

   The Darling Academy is the home of the traditional housewife.
   Celebrating homemaking, good manners, and family life. Here you will
   find articles on good old-fashioned recipes, housekeeping, marriage and
   family values, including tips on how to live a simple vintage-inspired
   life, free from modern day pressures. We also publish books on the
   subject of etiquette, daily elegance, and self-esteem with wholesome
   values in mind.
   Subscribe

   Enter your email address to receive updates from The Darling Academy
   directly to your inbox. We send articles on good manners and refined
   living, delicious recipes, and Great British adventures.
   Subscription email address ____________________ Subscribe
   © 2016-2022 The Darling Academy

   We Value Your Privacy

   The Darling Academy uses affiliate links and cookies to tailor your
   experience on this website. By continuing, you are agreeing to our
   privacy policy.

   I agree
