   #alternate

   GET THE APP

   (BUTTON)
   Home
   Journals
   A-Z Journals Browse By Subject
   Guidelines & Policies
   Editorial Policies Online Submission Instructions to Authors Policies
   Publication ethics & malpractice statement Reviewers Terms and
   Conditions
   Advertising Conferences Contact us

   Journal of Defense Management

Journal of Defense Management
Open Access

   ISSN: 2167-0374

   +44 20 3868 9735

   (BUTTON)
   Journal Home
   Editorial Panel
   Editor-in-Chief Editorial Board
   Instructions for Authors
   Instructions for Authors Publication ethics & malpractice statement
   Submit Manuscript Articles in process Archive
   Special Issues
   Guidelines Upcoming Special Issues
   Contact

   25+ Million Readerbase

Google Scholar citation report

Citations : 274

   Journal of Defense Management received 274 citations as per Google
   Scholar report
   Flyer image

Journal of Defense Management peer review process verified at publons

   Flyer image

Indexed In

   SafetyLit
   RefSeek
   Hamdard University
   EBSCO A-Z
   OCLC- WorldCat
   Publons
   Euro Pub
   Google Scholar

   View More »

Useful Links

   Covid-19 Journal Articles Issues Aim and Scope Peer Review Process
   Other Comments Advertising Citations Report Indexing and Archiving
   Table of Contents Submit Paper Track Your Paper Funded Work

Share This Page

Recommended Journals

   Defense Science Defense Management Military Management
   Flyer image

25+ Million Website Visitors

Journal Flyer

   Flyer image

                            Tweets by jdfm121212


Open Access Journals

   Agri and Aquaculture Biochemistry Bioinformatics & Systems Biology
   Business & Management Chemistry Clinical Sciences Engineering Food &
   Nutrition General Science Genetics & Molecular Biology Immunology &
   Microbiology Medical Sciences Neuroscience & Psychology Nursing &
   Health Care Pharmaceutical Sciences

   Mini Review - (2015) Volume 5, Issue 1
   View PDF Download PDF

The Roles of Woman as Leader and Housewife

   Niniek Fariati Lantara^*
          Indonesian Moslem University, Urip Sumoharjo Street km 5,
          Makassar, Indonesia

   ^*Corresponding Author: Niniek Fariati Lantara, Indonesian Moslem
   University, Urip Sumoharjo Street Km 5, Makassar, Indonesia Email:

Abstract

   Emancipation of woman in various areas of life has been discussed
   lately. Achievement and skill pointed out by woman nowadays make us
   consider that women and men are not differ much. It is seen by
   leadership and roles of women in various areas. Power of being stiff,
   tough, and accurate in making decision are characteristics of women for
   which they are required by a leader. Burden and responsibility of a
   female leader is more than responsibility of man as woman has double
   play either for being a mother in the household or a woman in the other
   womanly responsibilities. Equality between men and women will not be a
   waste of time effort if women act upon her ability to be competitive
   with men to their womanhood.

   Keywords: Female leader; Household

Introduction

   When time goes by, point of view toward women, from which women
   deserved to keep the house only and stayed at home all the time while
   men had to work outside to the current development when emancipation
   arises, makes women get equal rights to men.

   The struggle for women to obtain equal rights emphatically was
   pioneered by RA. Kartini, though some other women in Indonesia had the
   same struggle. Her struggle was an idea to make women have modern
   thought and act. Therefore, emancipation in various areas of life has
   pushed previous point of view aside as proposed by [1] stating women
   and men have their own position in social life. The two parties may
   stand in fair proportion because thought and intelligence will
   determine equal self-esteem between man and woman.

   We found many jobs are occupied by men and women to which the women
   shall not pull out their innate characteristics. Even if the women
   become the office head or president, what are required by these
   positions are intelligence and thought as the role holder.

   For sure, emancipation of women is grounded on some opinions that there
   are not many differences between men and women as suggested by the
   first president of the Republic of Indonesia, Sukarno, in 1963 that
   quality of female brains is not less than men’s, or intellectual acuity
   of women is not less than men’s [2]. Both quality of brains and
   intellectual acuity are same; however, it was just driven by different
   chance to work and to develop given by society [3]. Women shall make an
   effort to break the social injustice toward women.

   It has been clear that women have equal position to attempt and to
   work, but culture of society has suppressed women to stay at home and
   to keep the house. However, time is changing where men and women can
   cooperate in various areas of life. Simply put, women shall be given a
   chance to tell us that they are capable of developing nation in
   conformity with our ideals.

   As proposed by [4] stating that women’s capability is more apparent in
   various kinds of jobs and professions. Almost all women are able to
   work as good as men can do, or none of jobs are impossible for women.
   Their works are not worse than men, with an exception if the job
   require a lots of energy, such as harbor porter. On the contrary, there
   is an occupation which will be more effective if it is performed by
   woman as it requires womanhood.

   Progress and career achieved by woman are not given on the basis of
   sympathy; it is a matter of struggle with no gender discrimination or
   distinction. Greenstein [5], suggests that women themselves shall work
   hard in cooperation to let their voice be heard and to reveal their
   perspective on conference table while making decision. Woman have to be
   ready to meet the new challenge including making decision by her own
   consideration. Specifically, it applies to knowledge, engineering,
   mathematics, and technology to allow woman move forward.

   Equality of women and men will not be wasted away if the women are
   mobilized their abilities to achieve it. When women’s abilities are
   same as men, they shall be in competition against men to live, without
   losing their womanhood [6]. Emancipation owned by Indonesian woman has
   covered women’s political participation and leadership. Having the same
   right as the man has does not mean that the person concerned has to got
   out of her responsibilities as a housewife.

The Role of Women in the Household

   Woman in her life has more heavier responsibilities than men. Double
   play of a woman today has not only responsibilities at home as a
   housewife, but also out of door as career woman. In a simple way,
   Suwondo (1981) suggests that roles of women are

   a. Being member of a country in regard to civil rights and politics; it
   includes fair deal to female labor force participation, also called as
   external function.

   b. Being a mother in a family and wife in the husband-wife household,
   also called as internal function.

   These internal and external functions are foundation for woman,
   especially for those who have career, so woman has to be capable of
   managing roles to prevent two-side roles negligence. Negligence will
   bring imbalance when some women frequently prefers one role and leave
   the others. If career is preferred, some of them face threat of broken
   home or worse, i.e. divorce. There are also women who prefer their
   career than marriage where that the person concerned lives alone or
   remain unmarried [7]. For those married women who prefer the second
   role, they sacrificed their career or resigned from an occupation to be
   a housewife who keep staying at home. It is regrettable since inner
   potential ability of these women will be sunk or buried forever.
   Therefore, woman who takes one role only is not so favorable for life
   establishment. For this reason, those outstanding and unbeatable women
   shall fight for meeting the challenge if they take both roles. However,
   there must be mutual understanding between husband and wife and they
   have to complement each other in their family.

   Applicable tradition in Indonesia up to now indicates that it is not an
   obligation of married woman to work in formal area, but it depends on
   economic capacity and permission of the husband. On the basis of this
   tradition, relationship of husband and wife or relationship of woman
   and family may raise an issue if the woman is working. Some points of
   view causing women do not work or do not perform external function, or
   they perform it involuntarily due to certain reason are stated by [8,9]
   as follows:

   a. Unmarried woman or divorced woman, basically, does not want to work,
   but she has no capacity to pay for the necessities of life.

   b. Unmarried woman or divorced woman who is glad about her job and she
   has enough money to meet the needs, but her family opposes her
   preference to work.

   c. Unmarried woman or divorced woman has desire to work, but she does
   not have knowledge and fund to meet the daily needs.

   d. Woman has got married, but the husband has an opinion that the
   breadwinner shall be the husband only, and husband’s income exceeds the
   needs for clothing, shelter and recreation for both of them.

   e. Woman has got married, but the husband has an opinion that the
   breadwinner shall be the husband only, although husband’s income is not
   sufficient for their food, clothing and shelter.

   f. Woman has got married and keep working under the husband’
   permission, then they have a child. Woman keep on having job, although
   husband’s income is enough to meet the needs for wife and children.

   g. Woman has got married and keep working under the husband’
   permission, then they have a child. Basically, woman is not sure to
   keep working, but husband’s income is not sufficient to meet their
   needs when they have a child.

   Explanation above is an illustration of today’s women condition in
   Indonesia. There is an uncertainty among their desire to work,
   prohibition to work, or they do not want to work due to reasonable
   reason. For those who want to keep working, here are some reason they
   have, as proposed by [8,9]:

   a. Economic factor.

   b. Parents of the woman give her a chance to pursue knowledge that will
   let the woman has skills to make her livelihood.

   c. Woman has an awareness to have a career.

   Motive to work does not permanently suit her fancy. There may be some
   reason on why the woman has to leave her job. Woman who works in formal
   and informal sectors in external function can not refuse to carry out
   her responsibility of being a mother in internal function. Further role
   of woman in external function is her contribution in nation development
   and building [10,11] as follows:

   a. A whole development requires maximal participation of men and women
   in all areas of development. Therefore, women have equal rights,
   responsibilities and opportunities as men have to fully participate in
   all areas of development.

   b. The roles of women in nation development does not cut her roles down
   in family prosperity improvement, in general, and youth development, in
   particular in purpose to build the perfect Indonesian man.

   c. In order to give women opportunities and responsibilities in nation
   development, knowledge and skills shall be improved in various areas on
   the demand.

   Roles of women is a concept which have to be done by Indonesian women
   to perform their external function [12].

   Further, [13] suggests that women’s responsibilities in the family and
   society in internal and external functions are:

   a. As a wife, a woman is expected to stand next to her husband as
   beloved wife and best friend to build a teamwork in establishing happy
   family;

   b. As a mother, she is expected to be an educator and supervisor of the
   youth to provision them with spiritual and physical strength to fight
   for challenges today, and to make them fit for nation.

   c. As a manager, she is expected to make home comfort and well-managed
   for all members of the family.

   d. As an employer in an organization, she works in government, in
   private firm, or in political party, or may be she runs a private
   enterprise or in other field of works to increase family income.

   e. As a member of social organization, especially women’s organization,
   social institution or other organization, she gives energy for social
   life.

   Above duties are multiple roles in and out of the house in purpose to
   let women participate in the development process. Then, duties of
   household and career will give her huge problems in her life as
   proposed by [14] that

   - there is a woman with high ideals and talent that make her dedicate
   herself for the thing she loves and she stay single;

   - there is a woman who cannot live happily if she has to dedicate
   herself to a family, or if she has to be a housewife in entire of her
   life;

   - there is a skilled woman and, perhaps, her ambition makes the woman
   prioritize career above family. This condition may lead to divorce.

   - There is a woman who takes a golden mean because she has a job, so
   she accepts her double role by trying to combine both duties at her
   best.

   - This woman shall understand what will obstruct success of her career,
   but she shall take into consideration that family is also important.

   Therefore, the best way for women is by making division between duties
   of being a mother and of being career woman. The main responsibility
   above all for woman is on establishment for happy and prosperous
   family. Simply put, a woman has duties of being mother and household
   manager; it is a kind of whole-heart duty to stand her own family up as
   a part of society. The goals of this effort are firm, fame, safe,
   peaceful and harmonious family among social life. As a mother, a woman
   may make friendship, family relationship with other families in the
   environment where she lives in, in peace and harmonious.

   Responsibility to the family makes family rubs along with together and
   harmonious. She works, makes an effort, gives everything she has for
   the integrity of the family whole-heartedly and takes care of family’s
   honor sincerely together with the husband and their children. As a
   spouse, a woman shall have belief that the family will stand right and
   authoritative if both woman as the mother and man as the head of
   household are balanced, harmonious and in perfect union on the basis of
   understanding, awareness and sacrifice. Mother in the household has
   important and prominent roles, particularly in guiding and bringing up
   children. The roles are also applicable for household management [15].

Woman Leadership Styles

   At first, some people had doubts about woman in formal leader position
   considering appearance of woman is different from man. However, this
   judgment had been broken by skills and achievements they have.
   Leadership, no matter who stand in this position man or woman, has the
   same goals.The difference is only in physical appearance as suggested
   by [16], leadership is a form of dominance built by personal capability
   which is able to encourage or invite other people to perform something
   on the basis of acceptance of this group of people. Leadership proposes
   appropriate particular competence for specific condition.

   A leader with particular competence whose capability is accepted by his
   group belongs to informal leader since the leadership emphasizes more
   at special features, in particular place and individual. Accordingly,
   the leader is elected based on particular skills or competences,
   instead of the ability to lead. For example, a group of women with
   their skills in making batik will elect the best batik maker to be
   their leader. This voting system also applies to a group of women with
   their skills in tenun making where the best tenun maker will be their
   leader [17].

   Leader in formal organization has dominance over managers established
   by principles of management. Accordingly, domination is institutional
   and it is not connected to personal characteristics; for example, when
   a woman becomes headmaster, her subordinates, either teachers or
   administrative staffs are obedient to her leadership, instead of the
   person of the leader, as their formal leader. It is necessary to
   investigate woman leadership which can put her on the same level as the
   man if the person herself has N-ach to attain an achievement.
   Accordingly, M. Clelland suggests mental virus, i.e. certain way of
   thinking which is rarely found, but when it exists, it can encourage
   the person to work hard.

   It is named as N-ach (need for achievement), i.e. a need to grasp
   success or achievement. It is found in a kind of thought regarding how
   to “behave better” or “behave much better” than the previous act. It
   also involves how to make something more efficient and faster, with
   less energy, but still to achieve the better outcome, etc. Therefore,
   what is expected of a leader is the better outcome and the more
   glorious work achievement before now. Woman leadership will be
   acknowledged by her subordinates or other people because of her success
   leadership, especially when goals of the institution where she work in
   are achieved.

   When woman become a formal leader, as career woman, she will face many
   problems either in her career or household. This dualism roles has been
   proposed by [18] stating that if every woman becomes housewife, courage
   to have a career, definitely, has to be supported by sufficient
   capability. However, having career encourages the woman to have strong
   will and concentration which were not a demand for woman. Thus, courage
   is not possessed by woman at once. Elaboration of ambition, confidence
   to lead, and effort to gain success ambition is performed in real life
   based on the particular ethics and morality which are not substantively
   possessed by woman.

   Competence, ambition and success are achieved by having regard to her
   role as a housewife and by working together with men. Woman leadership
   is seen by her maturity to solve various problems she faces, especially
   if she is well qualified for the field to which she led without
   ignoring womanhood. Therefore, woman leadership shall be redefined as
   proposed by [17,18]. He states that concept of leadership which is
   man-like characterized leadership shall be ready to be redefined in a
   such way that there is possibility to define woman-like characterized
   leadership.

   The society has assigned image of motherhood to a high position, so it
   can prop up a leader as a mom and it has been driven to that course.
   Leadership means competition and hierarchy which relates to the matter
   of dominance and responsibility. Considering woman point of view, this
   definition need redefinition just the same as redefinition of dominance
   which is redefined based on cultural context we face. At last,
   leadership can be defined as a state of maturity. Maturity, whereas, is
   ability to manage dilemma, internalization and manifestation, integrity
   and participation.

   Personality trait of a leader is made up of maturity, i.e. a state when
   masculinity is grown up in the person of woman and so does femininity
   in the person of man. Leadership also combines masculine and feminine
   maturity grown up in one person including firmness and sensitivity,
   courage and gentleness, stiffness and full of empathy [19].

   Leadership aims at developing androgyny for man and woman. Accordingly,
   woman will not ignore masculinity development. Woman who is able to
   behave and to act as a leader will have multiple personality either
   feminine woman or masculine woman because she is firm, courage, and
   stiff. These traits is necessary for making appropriate decision like
   the man can do. Without these required traits, leadership will face
   difficulties, considering many opinions that woman is weak person, even
   if it is not true.

   Frequently as a leader, woman faces many objection from cultural
   attitude of society considering that man functions as guard and head of
   a family. So does physical obstacle where woman is underestimated by
   her incapability of performing heavy duties. In details, [20,21],
   outline some obstacles to the leadership of woman as follows:

   First, physical obstacles. Woman is burdened by “contractual duty” to
   be pregnant with, to give birth to and to nurse a child. This necessity
   reduces freedom to keep active in various areas of life. Just imagine
   if a woman has to be pregnant with more than a dozen children. For
   sure, her working age would be used up for this honorable duties.

   Second, theological obstacle. For a long time, woman was seen as an
   human being for man. The duties cover standing next to man, making him
   comfort and providing his needs. Woman, based on theological views,
   woman was created from the rib of man. This story has been stuck in
   people’s mind, and physiologically, it becomes one of obstructing
   factors for woman to participate in significant role.

   Third, sociocultural obstacles. It mainly forms a stereotype. It is a
   thought where woman is passive, weak, sensitive, dependent and
   surrender person. Just the opposite, man is regarded as active, strong
   intelligent, independent person and other superior qualities. This view
   set the man, socioculturally, has higher “position” than the woman
   [22,23].

   Fourth, obstacles of point of view. This obstacle, for example, emerges
   as the consequence of dichotomous thinking between responsibilities of
   men and women. Woman is accounted as homebody, while man is seen as out
   of home person. Such dichotomous point of view might make woman
   uncomfortable to go out, while man disregards household matters because
   they are inappropriate for them

   Fifth, historical obstacle. It is just a few names of women in history
   of ancient times which may confirm women’s incapability to participate
   at a same count as men had.

   The five obstacles obstruct potential leadership of women move forward
   to achieve appropriate position in life. However, information and
   communication stream absorbed and accepted by women give them
   opportunity to grow their personality and leadership. For those women
   possessing sufficient education in conformity with Compulsory Education
   Act, this progress has give them a chance to have career in accord with
   their capability [24,25]. Overflowing information stream received at
   home via television, radio, newspaper or magazine broaden female
   horizon to extend their dreams.

   If a woman only acts upon her duty as a housewife who has to give birth
   to a child at all times, for sure her opportunity to develop herself
   will be taken over to be pregnant with, to give birth and to take care
   of the child [26]. Then, when contraceptive device was invented, it
   cuts down birth rate, and can make it seldom, so opportunity to bring
   up the child and to improve herself will be higher [27].

   To be a female leader, what is the most important thing is capability
   which shall be backed up by educational background in accord with her
   field of work. According to [8,28]: in purpose to be a success leader,
   there are some principles of leadership, they are (a) intelligence
   which shall be relatively better than subordinates people, (b) positive
   thinking, (c) social and vast-range maturity, (d) good leader, (e) good
   listener, (f) openness in communication, and (g) immunity from
   problems.

   These principles of leadership are direction for leader to be applied
   in managing organization to reach goals of organization [29,30]. If the
   principles are carried out, there are no differences between man and
   woman. By conducting the principles, the organization or institution
   will work properly and risks will be minimized. Therefore, anywhere the
   woman lives, the same chance shall be given to her. This opinion is
   proposed by [20,31], as follows:

   a. Woman leadership in the recent and future development will bring
   potential and key position in political, economic, sociocultural, and
   religion development of the nation.

   b. Woman leadership may be developed when woman education is improved
   equal to man.

   c. Woman leadership shall be proclaimed important and necessary to be
   developed in all areas and in all levels.

   d. Male leader shall be convinced that woman leadership is important
   and that women will not compete with man leadership. Indeed, it will
   complement and enrich man leadership. Therefore, man leadership shall
   give a capacious opportunities to female leader.

   The government together with women’s organizations shall make a
   “masterplan” on how to improve woman leadership in all aspects of life
   of the nation and of the country [32]. Hence, woman leadership will
   function as the partner of man leadership and woman has obvious portion
   to participate in the development of the nation and of the country.
   Sooner or later, position and leadership of woman will be evidently
   equal to men that there will be no gender segregation in making an
   effort or give dedication to the development and ideas of nation
   [33,34].

Conclusion

   Proud achievements and skills pointed out by women has proved that
   women have similarities with men.

   In this regard, women may have double play of being successful woman
   (career woman) without breaking the woman’s nature as a housewife in
   which the household is her responsibility.

   One of proof that woman works well beyond her world can be seen in
   leadership roles. Besides, skills, ambition, success of women in
   leadership may reach beyond men because they have ability of being
   stiff, tough, and accurate in making precise decision for which these
   characteristics are required by a leader.

   Burden and responsibility of a female leader or other career woman are
   huge. Woman shall not only have a career, but she also has
   responsibility to be a housewife at home. Such responsibility, indeed,
   is not belong to man.

   Struggle for equality between men and women will not end in smoke if
   the women are acting upon her ability. Thus, having the same ability
   will make women capable of being competitor of men to their womanhood.

References

    1. Bass BM,Avolio BJ(1994)Improving organizational effectiveness:
       through transformational leadership. SAGE Publications TO, London.
    2. Alfian(1978)ThoughtandPolitical Changein Indonesia.Jakarta:
       Foundationsof Social SciencesandPT. Gramedia.
    3. Jean Lau Chin (2007) Women and Leadership: Transforming Visions and
       Diverse Voices. Blackwell Publising
    4. Greenstein TN (2000) Economic dependence, gender, and the division
       of labor in the home: A replication and extension. Journal of
       Marriage and Family 62: 322-335.
    5. Suitor JJ, Mecom D, Feld IS (2001) Gender, household labor, and
       scholarly productivity among university professors. Gender Issues
       19: 50-67.
    6. Cunningham M (2005) Gender in cohabitation and marriage: The
       influence of gender ideology on housework allocation over the life
       course. Journal of Family Issues 26: 1037-1061.
    7. Major B (1993) Gender, entitlement, and the distribution of family
       labor. Journal of Social Issues 49:141-159.
    8. Brines J (1994) Economic dependency, gender, and the division of
       labor at home. American Journal of Sociology 100: 652-688.
    9. Natalie Porter dan Jessica Henderson Daniel (2007) Women and
       Leadership: Developing Transformational Leaders: Theory to
       Practice. Blackwell Publising.
   10. Williams JC (2000) Unbending gender: Why family and work conflict
       and what to do about it. Oxford University Press, New York.
   11. Fetterolf JC, Eagly AH (2011) Do young women expect gender equality
       in their future lives? An answer from a possible selves experiment.
       Sex Roles65:83-93.
   12. Verlander G (2004) Female physicians: Balancing career and family.
       Academic Psychiatry28: 331-336.
   13. Noonan MC (2001)The impact of domestic work on men’s and women’s
       wages. Journal of Marriage and Family 63:1134-1145.
   14. Eagly AH, Steffen VJ (1984)  Gender stereotypes stem from the
       distribution of women and men into social roles. Journal of
       Personality and Social Psychology46:735-754.
   15. Kaufman G (2005) Gender role attitudes and college students’ work
       and family expectations. Gender Issues22: 58-71.
   16. Sanchez L, Thomson E (1997) Becoming mothers and fathers:
       Parenthood, gender, and the division of labor. Gender & Society11:
       747-772.
   17. Liss M, Erchull MJ, Staebell SE, Axelson SJ (2010) Men want
       equality, but women don’t expect it: Young adults’ expectations for
       participation in household and child care chores. Psychology of
       Women Quarterly 34:243-252.
   18. Robbins, Stephen P (1998)Organizational Behavior: Concepts,
       Controversiess, Application,8th ed, Prentice-Hall International
       IncNew Jersey.
   19. Batalova JA, Cohen PN (2002)Premarital cohabitation and housework:
       Couples in crossnational perspective. Journal of Marriage and
       Family 64: 743-755.
   20. Davis SN, Greenstein TN, Marks JPG(2007) Effects of union type on
       division of household labor: Do cohabiting men really perform more
       housework? Journal of Family Issues28:1246-1272.
   21. Kamo Y (2000) ‘‘He said, she said’’: Assessing discrepancies in
       husbands’ and wives’ reports on the division of householdlabor.
       Social Science Research 29:459-476.
   22. Schneider D (2011) Market earnings and household work: New tests of
       gender performance theory. Journal of Marriage and Family 73:
       845-860.
   23. Hochschild A (1989)The second shift: Working parents and the
       revolution at home.
   24. Mason MA, Goulden M (2004) Marriage and baby blues: Redefining
       gender equity in the academy. Annals of the American Academy of
       Political and Social Science596: 86-103.
   25. Hersch, J, Stratton LS (2002) Housework and wages. The Journal of
       Human Resources37: 217-229.
   26. Coltrane S(2000) Research on household labor: Modeling and
       measuring the social embeddedness of routine family work. Journal
       of Marriage and Family 62: 1208-1233.
   27. Gupta S (1999)The effects of transitions in marital status on men’s
       performance of housework. Journal of Marriage and Family61:700-711.
   28. Ferber MA, Young L(1997) Student attitudes toward roles of women
       and men: Is the egalitarian household imminent? Feminist Economics
       3: 65-83.
   29. Berk SF (1985)The gender factory: The apportionment of work in
       American households. Plenum New York.
   30. Davis SN, Greenstein TN (2009)Gender ideology: Components,
       predictors, and consequences. Annual Review of Sociology35: 87-105.
   31. Bianchi SM, Milkie MA,Sayer LC, Robinson JP (2000) Is anyone doing
       the housework? Trends in the gender division of household labor.
       Social Forces79: 191-228.
   32. Bryant A (2003) Changes in attitudes toward women’s roles:
       Predicting gender-role traditionalism among college students. Sex
       roles 48: 131-142.

   Citation: Lantara NF (2015) The Roles of Woman as Leader and Housewife.
   J Def Manag 4:125.
   Copyright: Â© 2015 Lantara NF. This is an open-access article
   distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution
   License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction
   in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.

Content Links

     * Tools
     * Feedback
     * Careers
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms & Conditions
     * Authors, Reviewers & Editors

Contact Longdom

   Longdom Group SA
   Avenue Roger Vandendriessche,
   18, 1150 Brussels, Belgium
   Phone: +442038085340
   Email: [email protected]

Connect

   Facebook Linkedin Twitter Instagram

   Copyright © 2022 Longdom Publishing.

   Top
