   Skip to main content

   Home
   (BUTTON) [search.svg]
     * Log in

     * Buy the Morning Star
     * Shop
     * Newsletters
     * Support us
     * Contact us

     * Britain
     * World
     * Features
     * Editorial
     * Culture
     * Sport
     *

LATEST EDITORIAL
       Editorial: An end to the war in Ukraine must be urgently sought
     * BACK TO TOP

   Enter your keywords _______________
   Search

   Morning Star
   Monday, August 4, 2014 - 16:50

The changing role of the ‘housewife’

Forty years on from the publication of her landmark book Housewife, ANN
OAKLEY talks to the Morning Star modern feminism and gender roles today

   ×

              This is the last article you can read this month

                    You can read more article this month

                    You can read more articles this month

                    Sorry your limit is up for this month

                                  Reset on:

          Please help support the Morning Star by subscribing here

   THIS year marks the 40th anniversary of the publication of Ann Oakley’s
   Housewife.

   Based on Oakley’s PhD research, the pioneering feminist book looks at
   the role of the housewife in modern industrialised society.

   “The study of domestic labour was not taken seriously at all — it
   wasn’t understood to be a topic, in fact,” Oakley tells me as we sit in
   her office at the Institute for Education in London where she is
   professor of sociology and social policy.

   During her research, Oakley, now 70, interviewed 40 women living in
   suburban London. She found they tended to be dissatisfied because of
   the monotony, fragmentation and social isolation inherent in the role
   of housewife.

   Therefore, as “housework is directly opposed to the possibility of
   human self-actualisation,” she concluded with a call to abolish the
   housewife role.

   “I was being deliberately provocative,” she explains about the book’s
   final chapter which also called for the abolition of the traditional
   family and the abolition of traditional gender roles.

   Four decades later, what’s changed?

   “I think the whole notion of women being housewives has changed,” she
   replies.

   “If you asked women now to talk about themselves as housewives they
   wouldn’t know what you were talking about really.”

   But while she concedes men do more housework today, she explains it’s
   still not equal.

   “I don’t think there is any study in the world which shows it’s equal.”

   Sure enough, in the newly published 2014 Global Trends survey, 70 per
   cent of British women said they are mostly responsible for cooking,
   food shopping and household cleaning.

   These findings are supported by research from the Organisation for
   Economic Co-operation and Development (2013) and the Institute for
   Public Policy Research (2012), both of which show British women still
   do the lion’s share of domestic labour.

   “Most of the change that has happened since the ’70s has been, in my
   view, fairly superficial,” Oakley says.

   “The change in behaviour is probably less than the professed attitude —
   what people say is more egalitarian than what they do.”

   In particular, Oakley’s 1970s research was interested in the inequality
   of responsibility.

   “In so far as men did housework it was construed by the men and women
   as him helping her with the housework — not the other way round.

   “In terms of the issue of responsibility, what happened in the 1970s is
   still happening now.”

   When men do pitch in, studies show they generally end up doing the
   tasks that are arguably more enjoyable and leisurely — gardening and
   DIY, for example.

   Oakley agrees. “In the area of childcare, it’s still the case that men
   are more likely to be doing the more enjoyable side of childcare,
   rather than changing the dirty nappies.”

   So why does this grossly unfair status quo continue?

   “Patriarchy is the simple explanation,” Oakley argues.

   “Men are a privileged group and there is no reason they should give up
   their privilege unless they are forced to do so.” This is where
   feminism comes in. “Most of the change in men’s behaviour, I suspect,
   has come about because the women they are involved with have put
   pressure on them to change. Men haven’t, en masse, decided that
   housework is a good thing to do.”

   Oakley sees increasing men’s involvement in housework and childcare as
   an important step in addressing the social problem of masculinity — a
   topic she explored in a 2011 Guardian article co-written with fellow
   feminist academic Cynthia Cockburn.

   Quoting government statistics, they noted: “Men were perpetrators in 91
   per cent of all violent incidents in England and Wales … 81 per cent
   for domestic violence, 86 per cent for assault, 94 per cent for
   wounding, 96 per cent for mugging, 98 per cent for robbery.”

   In addition, Ministry of Justice figures show men to be responsible for
   98 per cent of sexual offences, 92 per cent of drug offences and 89 per
   cent of criminal damage.

   “The evidence is that being involved in basic care work, being involved
   in very close relationships with dependent people including children,
   is something that brings out qualities which are traditionally
   associated with being a woman — caring, altruism and all that,” Oakley
   says.

   “That happens with men too, but they have to first of all be willing to
   put themselves in the position so those changes can occur.”

   According to 2011 research by Churchill Home Insurers, one in seven of
   the population pay for outside hired help to do housework. Oakley
   doesn’t buy this as a solution to the problem.

   “That’s not a solution because very often the people who are hired are
   women and they are underpaid, their job conditions and security are not
   good,” she says.

   “And usually it is the woman in the household who is responsible for
   looking after the hired help. So you’ve simply passed the oppression on
   in some sense.”

   Oakley’s politics and research interests were energised by the
   second-wave feminism of the early 1970s.

   Forty years later, many commentators argue we are currently in the
   midst of fourth-wave feminism, with groups and campaigns such as UK
   Feminista, Everyday Sexism and No More Page 3 evidence of renewed
   feminist activism.

   “I don’t know enough about it really,” Oakley admits when I ask her
   about the resurgent movement.

   However, she feels that some of the media discussions around
   contemporary feminism she is aware of have little in common with the
   women’s liberation movement of the ’70s.

   She points to the current focus on the representation of women in
   positions of power. “We were not arguing for women’s share of the top
   jobs. We were talking about basic issues, we were arguing on the level
   of basic reproductive rights and access to childcare — state-provided
   childcare. It was all about doing something about the domestic
   oppression and not about undoing the privilege at the top.”

   Rather than getting a bigger portion of the pie, she argues, “it was
   about changing the pie. We wanted a different kind of pie.”

   She is philosophical when I suggest that her work, and the work of many
   other feminists from her generation, is rarely cited in the popular
   feminist polemics being published today.

   “Time moves on — it’s one of the sad things that so much has to be
   rediscovered time and again,” she says.

   In fact she says she found one book that referred to her as dead — “The
   late Ann Oakley.”

   “I’m not late in the sense I’m dead and also I’m quite a punctual
   person,” she quips.

   Having read Housewife and Oakley’s stupendously good Gender and Planet
   Earth — a book that moves from men and meat-eating to critiquing
   post-modernism — I can safely say contemporary feminism is missing a
   lot by ignoring Oakley’s groundbreaking work.

   As the recent surveys mentioned above show, housework continues to be a
   source of inequality between men and women.

   Housewife could therefore be the key text in the revival of feminist
   concern over housework that must take place if women are to gain any
   semblance of equality in the future.


   Ian Sinclair is the author of The March That Shook Blair: An Oral
   History of 15 February 2003, published by Peace News Press. He tweets
   @IanJSinclair.

Others liked

   Tuesday 20th Dec 2022
   NHS workers march on Downing Street as nurses take second day of strike
   action
   Tuesday 20th Dec 2022
   Posties confirm Christmas strikes after Royal Mail rejects calls for
   last ditch talks
   Monday 19th Dec 2022
   Jeremy Clarkson’s hatred cannot go ignored
   Wednesday 16th Mar 2022
   21st Century Poetry Wheat
   Tuesday 20th Dec 2022
   Every industrial battle – big or small – prepares workers for tougher
   battles ahead
   Join the 501 Club

   You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
   Britain that’s fighting for one by joining the 501 club.

   Just £5 a month gives you the opportunity to win one of 17 prizes, from
   £25 to the £501 jackpot.

   By becoming a 501 Club member you are helping the Morning Star cover
   its printing, distribution and staff costs — help keep our paper
   thriving by joining!
   Join here »
   Buy Shares

   You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
   Britain that’s fighting for one by become a member of the People’s
   Printing Press Society.

   The Morning Star is a readers’ co-operative, which means you can become
   an owner of the paper too by buying shares in the society.

   Shares are £10 each — though unlike capitalist firms, each shareholder
   has an equal say. Money from shares contributes directly to keep our
   paper thriving.

   Some union branches have taken out shares of over £500 and individuals
   over £100.
   Buy here »
   Donate to the Fighting Fund

   You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
   Britain that’s fighting for one by donating to the Fighting Fund.

   The Morning Star is unique, as a lone socialist voice in a sea of
   corporate media. We offer a platform for those who would otherwise
   never be listened to, coverage of stories that would otherwise be
   buried.

   The rich don’t like us, and they don’t advertise with us, so we rely on
   you, our readers and friends. With a regular donation to our monthly
   Fighting Fund, we can continue to thumb our noses at the fat cats and
   tell truth to power.

   Donate today and make a regular contribution.
   Donate here »

Tories' 'despicable attack' on striking ambulance workers fails to dent
national action

   HEALTH Secretary Steve Barclay was accused of launching a despicable
   attack on striking ambulance workers today after he claimed that they
   have mad
   Editorial | Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

Editorial: An end to the war in Ukraine must be urgently sought

   World | Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

Zelensky in Washington will only 'bring direct war with Russia closer,' warn
peace activists

   Britain | Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

Nurses and midwives reject Scottish government's pay offer – paving way for
more strikes

Government considering putting asylum-seekers on disused ocean liners, Suella
Braverman tells Commons

   Britain

   SUELLA BRAVERMAN has confirmed that the government is considering
   accommodating asylum-seekers on old cruise ships as part of plans to
   end the use

Latest stories

   Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

Own goal sends Newcastle into League Cup quarters

   Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

Education Secretary slammed for saying teachers are in top 10% of earners

   Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

Washington blames record migration on ‘communism’ when the causes are closer
to home

   Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

Home Office 'knew it was breaking the law' detaining asylum-seekers at
Manston, Labour charges

   Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

Peru expels Mexican ambassador as Castillo's family receive asylum there

   Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

High Court says 'pre-settled' status rule for EU citizens is unlawful

   Wednesday 21st Dec 2022

France accuses Rwanda of supporting M23 rebels in DR Congo

Others liked

   Britain | Tuesday 20th Dec 2022

NHS workers march on Downing Street as nurses take second day of strike
action

   Britain | Tuesday 20th Dec 2022

Posties confirm Christmas strikes after Royal Mail rejects calls for last
ditch talks

   Features | Monday 19th Dec 2022

Jeremy Clarkson’s hatred cannot go ignored

   21st Century Poetry
   Arts | Wednesday 16th Mar 2022

21st Century Poetry Wheat

   [logo.svg]

OWNED BY OUR READERS

   We're a reader-owned co-operative, which means you can become part of
   the paper too by buying shares in the People’s Press Printing Society.
   Become a supporter
   [ff-logo.png]

Fighting fund

   You've Raised:£ 5,524
   We need:£ 12,467
   16 Days remaining
   Donate today
   Tweets by Morning Star

     * Britain
     * World
     * Features
     * Editorial
     * Culture
     * Sport
     *

LATEST EDITORIAL
       Editorial: An end to the war in Ukraine must be urgently sought
     * BACK TO TOP

   [logo_mark.svg]

Owned by Our Readers

   We're a reader-owned co-operative, which means you can become part of
   the paper too by buying shares in the People’s Press Printing Society.
   BECOME A SUPPORTER
     * Privacy policy
     * Returns policy
     * Terms of use
