   View PDF Download PDF

The Roles of Woman as Leader and Housewife

   Niniek Fariati Lantara^*
--
   covered women’s political participation and leadership. Having the same
   right as the man has does not mean that the person concerned has to got
   out of her responsibilities as a housewife.

The Role of Women in the Household
--
   Woman in her life has more heavier responsibilities than men. Double
   play of a woman today has not only responsibilities at home as a
   housewife, but also out of door as career woman. In a simple way,
   Suwondo (1981) suggests that roles of women are

--
   remain unmarried [7]. For those married women who prefer the second
   role, they sacrificed their career or resigned from an occupation to be
   a housewife who keep staying at home. It is regrettable since inner
   potential ability of these women will be sunk or buried forever.
   Therefore, woman who takes one role only is not so favorable for life
--

   - there is a woman who cannot live happily if she has to dedicate
   herself to a family, or if she has to be a housewife in entire of her
   life;

--
   When woman become a formal leader, as career woman, she will face many
   problems either in her career or household. This dualism roles has been
   proposed by [18] stating that if every woman becomes housewife, courage
   to have a career, definitely, has to be supported by sufficient
   capability. However, having career encourages the woman to have strong
--

   Competence, ambition and success are achieved by having regard to her
   role as a housewife and by working together with men. Woman leadership
   is seen by her maturity to solve various problems she faces, especially
   if she is well qualified for the field to which she led without
--
   horizon to extend their dreams.

   If a woman only acts upon her duty as a housewife who has to give birth
   to a child at all times, for sure her opportunity to develop herself
   will be taken over to be pregnant with, to give birth and to take care
--

   In this regard, women may have double play of being successful woman
   (career woman) without breaking the woman’s nature as a housewife in
   which the household is her responsibility.

--
   Burden and responsibility of a female leader or other career woman are
   huge. Woman shall not only have a career, but she also has
   responsibility to be a housewife at home. Such responsibility, indeed,
   is not belong to man.

--
       roles 48: 131-142.

   Citation: Lantara NF (2015) The Roles of Woman as Leader and Housewife.
   J Def Manag 4:125.
   Copyright: Â© 2015 Lantara NF. This is an open-access article
