    2. Culture

The Stress of Being a Housewife

   4 minutes
   The Stress of Being a Housewife The Stress of Being a Housewife

   Last update: 27 April, 2020
--
   effects of stress. In this case, we’re talking about housewives.

   We may think that the role of a housewife doesn’t involve pressure
   since it’s a common occupation. However, this isn’t the case.
   Housewives actually do a lot of tasks.

   If we consider intensive work, high level of responsibility, and lack
   of leisure time causes of stress, then being a housewife is definitely
   a stressful occupation. This means that a housewife may be exposed to a
   lot of stressors.

The housewife: a superwoman with superpowers

   The primary responsibility of a housewife is to care for her family and
   her home. Her obligations demand physical and mental stress.
   a stressed-out housewife
   a stressed-out housewife a stressed-out housewife

   Regarding physical stress, it may not be too intense. However, it may
--
   schedules. From the time they wake up until they go to bed, they have
   to be active in order to fulfill their family’s needs. From personal
   care to nutrition, the housewife takes on all the work. The
   responsibility of caring for a dependent family member rests on the
   mother.
--
   nothing and then arranging them again tomorrow.

The housewife has to exert continuous physical effort

   The physical effort housewives make tend to be more routinary than
--
   carry heavy bags, carry a child in their arms…

   It may be true that a housewife has some time to take a break. She can
   sleep throughout the night. But can she really take a break or sleep?
   The housewife must remain alert day or night for any unforeseen
   situation, especially if she has small children who cry, demand things,
   or get sick.

   All this physical exertion leads to fatigue. This fatigue leads to
   muscular fatigue and exhaustion. The stress of being a housewife is
   made up of these factors.

Mental activity results in the stress of being a housewife

   People believe that a housewife’s activities don’t involve mental work.
   However, this isn’t true. She must prepare the menu, calculate
   expenses, solve her children’s problems, etc. She has to face many
--
   traffic controllers, involve mental exhaustion. However, if we delve
   deeper into this, these professions are no different from being a
   housewife. Both undertake important tasks such as planning, resource
   management, or communicative intelligence.

   On the other hand, mental exertion may lead to mental fatigue. This
   diminishes her capacity for concentration, contributing to emotional
   instability. Therefore, the stress of being a housewife is heightened
   by her exposure to mental exertion.

The housewife also has a life of her own

   A housewife is, first of all, a person. She has her own conflicts,
   feelings, and psychological intricacies. What would happen if the
   housewife suffered from other types of stress, aside from the stress
   that comes from being a housewife?
   mentally exhausted housewife
   mentally exhausted housewife mentally exhausted housewife

   We think that nowadays, many housewives, besides carrying the entire
--
   misunderstood.

   Being a housewife is a dull job, who many women who never receive the
   recognition they should, do. This feeling of being unimportant often
   acts as a catalyst for stress, triggering the feeling of loneliness and
   isolation between the walls of the housewife’s home.
   It might interest you...
   How To Handle It When Your Family Stresses You Out
