   #Best Blogs » Feed Best Blogs » Comments Feed Best Blogs » Advantages
   and Disadvantages of Being a Housewife Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate

--
   Search for: ____________________ Search

Advantages and Disadvantages of Being a Housewife

     Home
--
     Interesting Articles

     Advantages and Disadvantages of Being a Housewife

   Advantages and disadvantages of being a housewife
   Interesting Articles
   April 6, 2020April 6, 2020admin

Advantages and Disadvantages of Being a Housewife

   The advantages and disadvantages of being a housewife are described
   here in this article. Before coming to the advantages and disadvantages
   let us know in detail what housewife means.  A woman who stays at home
   to take care of her home and family is known as housewife. Everyone has
   their unique ideas related to this topic as for someone being housewife
   is a cakewalk and for some other it is difficult to be a housewife. As
   a coin as both sides like that being a housewife has its own advantages
   and disadvantages. Let us get into detail.

Advantages of being a housewife

   The advantages of being a housewife are described below in detail:

1. Keeping an eye on children and taking care of home
--
   children. Due to this they have to depend on other people to take care
   of their kids and home and they cannot keep an eye on what is happening
   in the home. Being a housewife she can closely watch and monitor her
   kids this will increase bonding between the kids and her. Thus she can
   completely enjoy her motherhood by watching her kids growing which is
--
2. Flexibility

   Housewife has a flexibility to do daily household chores or anything
   else as she wishes to do. There is no particular order in doing her
   works. As there are no deadlines or stress in doing work like job
--
3. Management of time

   Being a housewife one can utilize their time wisely and use their
   leisure time for increasing her skills. Although she is doing
   everyone’s work in the house she can manage to have her own time which
--
   things etc.., all these cannot be possible to do for a working woman as
   she has no time to come up with her interests. And while we compare
   housewife and working woman housewife work for almost 5-6 hours a day
   whereas working woman has to work for 8-10 hours depending on their job
   nature by this we can say that housewife feel less tired than a working
   woman.

4. Housewife is herself a Boss and maid too

   Housewife has a freedom to do things. For example if she wants to
   rearrange things in her home she can do according to her taste as she
   is her own boss. And at the end of the day she was appreciated for all
   the sacrifice she was doing to the family. Being a housewife is plays
   both the roles of a boss and a maid which give her satisfaction.

--
5. Family matters most

   For a woman who is housewife for her family matters most. It is
   advantage for the family members as she takes care of everyone in the
   family.  She will be there for everyone in her family. It is a boon for
   some people to have a partner who is housewife. In her point of view
   being a housewife makes her enable to take care of herself too like she
   can take care her skin, hair etc., as she has time to maintain but it
   is not possible to maintain everything careful for a working women like
   a housewife.

Disadvantages of being a housewife

   The disadvantages of being a housewife are described below in detail:

1. Service taken for granted

   The work done by a housewife is taken for granted by everyone in the
   house.  There is no appreciation or recognisation of her hard work
   through the day.  Her decision is not taken in financial matters or
--
2. No financial stability

   There is no financial independence for housewife. For everything she
   has to depend on her husband. This will cause some disturbances and
   upset her. Unlike working woman if she wants to buy anything or wants
   to give gifts to her loved ones or for herself she has to again ask
   money which she feels bad and insecure. And if family is facing some
   serious financial issues housewife cannot able to help them.

3. No Professional Life

   Housewife doesn’t have a Professional life. She may be get bored of
   doing same daily household chores. She is less explored to outer world
   and she may not be able to experience the work life which gives some
--
   good. These are little things which can give joy and fulfillment of
   life. There is a great life with proper utilization of one’s skills in
   a productive way as the skills of housewife are not getting into
   limelight all her skills will be wasted if she doesn’t concentrate.

--
5. Psychological imbalances

   As housewife don’t care of herself and she ignores her health and
   changes in physical and mental conditions her body tends to change
   easily. She gains weight. And an idle mind generates many evil thoughts
   which are not good to her. The life of housewife is boring and
   depressing in this point of view.

