   Back to article index

           The New Stepford: I'm proud to be a traditional housewife

   Alena Kate Pettitt November 7, 2019

   Traditional-Housewife-Alena_Kate-Pettitt.jpg

   Join the Apron Clad Army

   Being a stay-at-home mum is nothing new. Similarly, being a housewife
   is nothing new - but a ‘traditional’ housewife and brazenly calling
   yourself so? The reason it’s news in 2020 is because we’ve been forced
   underground for so long, downtrodden and quietened by social shaming,
--
   ---

Oh, I’m “just” a housewife. It’s meaningless really.

   Born in west London, 1985, my early childhood was conventional.
--
   very content and in love - enjoying themselves at the weekends down the
   social club dancing the meanest quick-step you’d ever see. What I
   realise now is that despite Joyce appearing to be ‘just’ a housewife,
   she also had a side-hustle. A skill that added to the family coffers
   (or might have afforded her pocket-money for a perm or two), but she
   was always, first and foremost, a traditional housewife.

   My maternal grandmother Jytte (pron: You-tah) had a job. She worked as
--
   came with it!

   traditional-housewife-the-darling-academy.jpg

   But crashing towards 1996 when The Spice Girls stormed on the scene,
--
   doctors, teachers, and yes, even entrepreneurs, CEO’s, or housewives?

   In truth, being a female CEO and a Housewife are one and the same - one
   may have less subordinates, and wear an apron instead of a power suit,
   but their team tends to throw more tantrums, demand snacks 24/7, and
--

   In truth, I never wanted to be anything other than a doting wife, a
   mum, and the best darn housewife in the street! Yet I pretended the
   opposite a while*, as the world told me to get a career—Encouraged me
   to break glass ceilings, and watch I didn’t catch an STI from that
--
   but if I don’t, I suffer too.

   The art of being a housewife is actually hard work and requires much
   skill. We balance budgets, we multi-task, we crisis manage, we support
   people emotionally, we have time to volunteer and reach out to our
--
   rather not break a nail.

   If being a ‘traditional housewife” means cooking, cleaning, doing the
   school run, and being there (and being attentive) towards him when he
   gets home, then doing ‘just’ that or being defined as ‘submissive’ is
--
   IMG_5396.JPG I’ll stand here in my superhero cape shaped like an apron
   and defend the fact it should be a celebrated choice to be a
   traditional housewife and homemaker for as long as I live. Defending it
   for the little ones, and the grown ones alike.

     Let no woman be shamed for wanting to be “just” a traditional
     housewife. Alena Kate Pettitt

   If you want to debate it, just let me know when you’re coming and I’ll
--

   Previous article
   A not so desperate housewife

A not so desperate housewife

   Next article
--
   The Darling Academy

   The Darling Academy is the home of the traditional housewife.
   Celebrating homemaking, good manners, and family life. Here you will
   find articles on good old-fashioned recipes, housekeeping, marriage and
